### **Design Estimation and Jira workflow**

**The Problem**

Agile teams use tools like Jira to track progress on development tickets. Historically, Design tracking has not been included in our sprint boards and furthermore, we do not include VQA column in our Jira Workflow.

Design also requires increased documentation for approvals to ensure requirements are captured and to mitigate unforseen changes to scope.

**Proposed Solution**
- Document design tickets in the same backlog as Dev
	- Design tasks are part of the Jira backlog
		- This makes it easy to link design references to corresponding dev tickets
	- Use epics and components to categorize design tickets. eg. "design, vqa, front-end, back-end"
	- ***DRAFT:*** Include Design Tasks in estimation sessions. Design effort should be considered part of contributing velocity and bug tickets should be accounted for in the DoD for sprint goals
-   Track approval process on ticket and document changes
-   Attach design tickets to dev tickets for reference during deploy
	- Design tickets can be attached and referenced directly on jira tickets. They can be linked to shared epics or used as subtasks to ensure dev has what is needed to compete a ticket.
	- Alternatively, we can use Figma Embeds on tickets to provide dev a quick view of Figma designs in context.
		-  Version control on figma since embeds can be updated without an alert to the dev team



### **Make VQA a part of the process from the start**

All Jira projects with design support should include a VQA column and a VQA issue status. The intent here is to increase visibility for tickets requiring *manual* review, provide a prompt for devs and designers to work together and avoid using cumbersome process like VQA subtasks.

This is not intended to be a blocker to productivity, rather it is intended to accelerate it by reminding devs and designers to work together before moving tickets to CR and QA. Often times tickets are pushed back due to visual issues that could have been caught earlier. [Design QA deserves a seat at the table](https://phase.com/magazine/design-qa/ "https://phase.com/magazine/design-qa/")

Tickets should not sit in a VQA column; Designers should be aware of tickets in this column and proactively provide feedback to keep things moving.

> **Tip**
> Automated alerts can be setup to notify watchers when tickets move into specific columns. 

**Here’s the process**
1.  Devs have completed coding their tickets and are ready to move the ticket to the next stage
2.  Devs move their ticket to the VQA column and then pair with Designer to quickly review their tickets.
3.  Designer will review the ticket and provide steps to resolve any design issues.
	- Attach QA notes on ticket in Jira with supporting visuals if needed
4.  Once Designer gives their approval the ticket moves to Code Review